So let's add this last main navigation pattern you see in mobile apps and that's having a side door
of course risk navigation as covered for Dad as well from react navigation you can import create draw
and Navigator which does just what it sounds like.
It makes it easy for us to create this draw based navigation pattern and it gives us such a draw and
all the functionality we need to control the straw out of the box which is of course very convenient.
So we simply create a new navigator and I'll do this at the bottom of this file.
And just a quick side note of course you could split that into multiple files and have each navigator
in its own file and then merge them together into one file by importing them into one central file.
That is something you could do.
I found it easier for this tutorial also to keep it all in one file.
It's all too much too big of a file but you could definitely split this.
So I will create my draw navigator here at the bottom of this file and all stored in that constant named
Main navigator because in the end that's what it is.
This will be our main navigator in the end because the tab will be inside of the draw and navigator
in the end our haps here.
So on both tabs.
We have access to that side draw and decide draw allows us to go to a brand new screen which will not
be part of our taps.
So the draw navigator is above the tabs navigator in the hierarchy.
So how do we configure such a draw navigator.
Basically just as we did that before it takes two arguments.
The first argument is an object where we configure the screens for destroyer navigator justice before
we have identifiers like taps or meals favs whatever fitting navigator is for that first drawer entry
you want to have.
And here I want to point at my meals father tab navigator in and yet because that's what I want to load
there and on a second entry is the filters screen we must not forget that we have one other screen that's
the filters screen we haven't used it before now as it's time to shine and actually all wrapped as into
a stack navigator even though it will be empty.
So did we get a header there as well.
So I will add another stack navigator here with create stack navigator.
That's a very simple stack.
It will have only one screen and that will be the filters screen which would therefore need to import
here at the top because we're not doing that yet.
Let's import filters screen here from screens filters screen and now we can use the filters screen down
their website not not here but here in the stack navigator and named is filters navigator read anything
like that and now it's this filters Navigator which can map to filters in my drawer navigator and I
only use a stack navigator here so they also have a header there and for no other reason now on the
filter screen will of course work on this in a second but on there there's one thing I want to do right
away I will add my navigation options and I will add a header title there and set this to
filters or filter meals anything like that with that back to the meals navigator we're creating that
stack we're assigning the filters navigator stack navigator to our draw navigator and now we just have
to use the main navigator here in our app container to start with debt and now if we save this we see
nothing though.
Well I said that the draw navigator would manage all logic for opening it ends on the thing it does
not do for us automatically is show a menu icon so it doesn't show a hamburger button for us.
That's something we have to do and we can decide on which screens to show it.
And of course that would be the category screen because that's the root screen for the meals tab and
the favorite screen because that's the root screen for his favorites tab.
So in these two screens I want to add that menu icon and I add it in my navigation options as you learned
because there I want to add it with the help of header left.
Previously we used had a right to add actions to the navigation bar to the header but that menu button
typically is on the left to added here.
And I will use my header buttons for this.
So we'll import from react navigation header buttons.
This package we used earlier from there I will import header buttons and also item what we all use before
and also import my custom header button.
So header button from components header button so the same pattern we used before for adding that star
I can indeed action bar.
Now I'll do it here for the menu icon for the menu button and therefore we can now go down to the left
and their ad header buttons this year as a component set the header button component to our header button
component.
We're importing from our own custom component and add an item in there which allows us to define the
title that should be menu and then very importantly I can name.
And there you can use IOW menu.
And by the way you can always use the platform API here to use a different icon for Android and for
ISIS if you want to.
And last but not least all the add on press to do something when dead buttons pressed.
And now this should render a nice looking menu button here on that screen and indeed we see it here
on us.
And we also see it on Android.
Now again if you want a different icon on Android that looks more like a typical Android icons.
The same is true for the taps by the way you can use the platform API to render a different icon there
to save some time I'll use the same icons.
So this is how we display the icon.
How do we now opened a draw though well for this we need access to the navigation prop and we don't
have that access in the navigation options like this.
But of course we learned earlier that you can use the function form here where you then get your nav
data.
You could say in that function you then have to return your configuration object.
So here you have to return an object in the end.
And now nav data has such a navigation prop.
So now here in on press we can say nav data dot navigation Dad will now be available that's provided
by react navigation which executes this function the end.
And there you will have a toggle draw method.
You would also have open draw if you know you only want to open it but toggle draw will open it if it's
closed and close it if it's open.
So here you have toggle draw and dash should open the side menu.
So if we save that now indeed the drawer opens we can work on the styling and the text we see here in
a second but this is how you can open that drawer now before we take care about how this looks here.
Let's make sure we have to say one favorites.
And of course you can all deposit a video and do it on your own here because the steps will be the same
as for the meals categories here.
It's a nice practice to offer but after this short pause you have to pass this video we'll do it together
so were you successful.
Let's do it together and in the end it's all just about copying this setup here 2D favorites screen
so I will copy this entire navigation options setup from the categories screen to the favorite screen
and replace my navigation option steer with it of course that means that I have to renamed us here to
favorite screen and here change the title back to your favorites but now I already have this dynamic
navigation options creation function here where I have to toggle draw call here the icon I when he uses
the same we just have to make sure we import all the things we need to import and for Dad we can grab
the imports here from the categories screen as well from the react navigation had or buttons package.
And from our own header button.
Grab that and added here on the favorite screen now with Dad if we saved as this should be all now on
the favorite screen we also have to draw and you can open it there as well we can not just open it by
way if we click on filters role to take into the filter screen there we right now just don't have a
way back but that's actually something we can all fixed right away because of the filter screen I simply
also just want to have a draw at the top so on the filter screen I will also add my imports here Whip's
header buttons ends on and then all the add by navigation options here.
So copy the navigation options from the favorite screen this dynamic function and add it to the filters
screen and replace the navigation option stair of course therefore then changed this year back to filters
screen and change to title back to filter meals or whatever you want here and with that we should have
a draw on the filter screen as well and that allows us to go back to our meals now a couple of things
are missing though.
For example on the filter screen the header looks totally different and therefore here on Android I
can't even see my button because it's white the text here is not the text I want to display I also want
to use different colors here maybe different font so there is work left to do but the basic draw functionality
was added and as you see again with very little effort.
So let's now take care about styling the draw and that filters screen.